So let's talk about
strategies around that.
And we'll also talk about, I'm trying to
mostly create a fictitious situation to
talk about, go back to the GitHub actions
build process and how would you generate
one of these and be able to download it
later and kinda track stuff over time.
So that's also what we're doing,
so spoiler alert.
But if I kinda go, and I have the kind of
pre-baked version cuz watching me write
this is not super useful or
interesting to anyone involved.
In this test directory,
in your vitest.config,
they're both using the same
libraries under the hood.
There are three popular libraries for
code coverage, NYC, C8, and Istanbul.
In the same way, vitest and
are API compliant with each other,
they are mostly all
compliant with each other.
So which one you choose,
I don't care, right?
I use C8, with the C8,
it's named after V8, annotates the code.
Why do I use C8?
Because that is the one vitest would
prompt you to choose either Istanbul
or C8.
That was first on the list
in the drop-down, right?
I'd love to tell you there's
a better reasoning about it.
But there are some
configuration features,right?
You can have all.
all is I think a super interesting one
if you're trying to get that heuristic.
Because if you think about this,
normally what would happen is
you do npm run test, neat.
It goes to your test files.
It's basically walking that dependency
tree with your import statements, which
means files that never get imported never
get counted towards code coverage, right?
Which is either exactly what you want or
you don't want.
If you're just glancing, hey, I'm working
on test coverage for this file cuz I think
it's important, then you really
only wanna point to a given file.
And if you do run any of the filters,
your coverage report is gonna
be really bogus anyway,
because you might not have the coverage
cuz that test runner didn't do it.
all will at least try its best
to truly walk the tree and
find everything and
start working through all the files.
It's also slower.
But it's good if you're
trying to get a sense.
Then again, my test utilities, my tests
themselves, I don't want them counting.
Again, to the joke that we've had all day,
who tests the tests?
Not me.
TypeScript files, right, configuration
files, it'll depend on your application.
Again, big JSON files that
are maybe fixtures or something.
Sometimes when I find weird situations,
I will grab the network request JSONs and
I'll throw them in a directory in case I
ever wanna do something with them later,
put the UI in weird states.
You can choose to ignore a bunch of stuff.
You can choose to include
a bunch of stuff.
I think that this is arguably
more important in practicality.
Because, again, let's say you run this
thing and it's like a sea of red, right?
You're like, cool, let me start pushing
back the ocean with a broom, right?
You might know, hey,
the files in this directory,
I know that this particular file is
critically important to my application and
it has terrible code coverage, right?
You might start with one piece
of your application, right?
We are in this workshop,
in this course, we're not going for
the platonic ideal of anything.
We're going from,
I have a ten-year-old code base.
I inherited something.
No, my god, I can't sleep at night.
What do I do?
You might choose the two or
three most critical parts of your app and
choose to maybe enforce the code
coverage at that point because you know
that they're critical, right?
We're doing things because they make us
feel better and make us more confident,
not cuz we have read a blog post on the
Internet that told us we should, right?
The other one that I think is interesting,
which you saw statements, features,
branches, choose one of what you
think is the most important.
You do that by feel, by glancing the code.
A lot of this is by feel.
I hate to break it to you.
And this will actually fail
if you use dash coverage,
if the threshold drops below that,
to which you might be asking, hey Steve,
how did you settle on
59.79% code coverage?
I would like to draw your attention to
line 23, which is thresholdAutoUpdate.
Which is I put in the number
50 because I glanced at it and
I saw at the time it was 54.
But we've been solving some
issues during the workshop and
I think I added some stuff last night.
And I have thresholdAutoUpdate
set to true,
which just basically says,
it can't go down, right?
If for some reason we wrote some tests and
we got this thing up to 60,
guess what it would auto
update my file to be?
60, right?
Especially if you're being very
like nuanced with the input,
as much as I'm against,
cuz it's just like one of those things.
If you had it at 100 or something
really high, so to your point before,
why was line 15 red?
I'm sure I could spend an hour and
figure it out.
I'm sure nobody wants to
watch that right now.
So I'm gonna say I don't know,
move on with my life, right?
You will turn this off if it gets
to the point where it's begging for
arbitrary things, but
there might be things,
like I'm trying to fix this,
I'm trying to, we have a problem.
I'm solving a problem, and
then you might choose to turn that off.
You know what I mean?
Once you've gotten to the point where
you're no longer worried about it, and
that is totally fine as well.
But, Dustin has a question.
>> What is the all: true?
>> Yeah, we talked about a little bit,
if you don't have that on,
it will only check the coverage of
the files hit by your test runner, right?
Which means by definition there will be
some files that have 0% test covered,
cuz no test file ever imports them,
cuz vitest is looking for star.
It's looking in this case,
I have some weird things on this one,
there is a default exclude that you
can see, but for the regular ones,
I'm avoiding this svelte test,
weird stuff in this repo.
But vitest will load anything
usually with star.test.ts, whatever.
And it will look at those imports and
annotate everything,
files that are never imported by
a test aren't ever counted if you have
all set to false, which is the default.
It's all true,
we'll also do a filesystem scan,
try to collect them all that would have
matched and then analyze them as well.
It's tricky cuz you will then end
up with things you never aspired
to have test coverage,
again like vitest.config.ts.
That is a file that I will never test,
[LAUGH] right?
I don't want to test, I don't care.
And I have it in the ignore one.
So if you do all, this grows, right?
If you don't have all on,
you can probably get rid of this, right?
And so it's like, how much pain
do you want and what direction?
A lot of these things
depend on the unique,
all good code bases have
a lot of things in common.
All terrible code bases are unique and
special in their own way.
This is why we're kinda taking a very
wide philosophical stance here,
because the terrible code base that you
are dealing with, if it was that easy to
solve by applying a few things,
it would have been fixed by now, right?
You could have probably just
even run something that,
Prettier can handle all
the formatting issues.
You're left with that six
deep nested conditional.
You know what I mean?
With three, four loops in there, right?
You have to deal with that one.
Prettier will definitely move that
semicolon back for you though.
And yeah, use the tools appropriately.
And so, yeah, we're kinda casting
a wide net in that sense.
But like I said, I think what could be
interesting, and there are services
where you could, I think CodeCov is one,
Coveralls which I like as a name,
will also integrate with your build
process and chart it out over time.
And again, to the point we made earlier,
the number, [SOUND] that's dangerous.
A graph that shows it going
down is possibly useful.
You know what I mean?
Saying like we have to have 80.
And I think Amazon does this,
right, it's like a Bezos thing,
where it can't drop below 90 or
something like that.
>> So philosophical question about that,
I think you already answered it, but
I wanna just clarify.
>> Yeah.
>> When you say the 80-20 rule for
example-
>> Yeah.
>> You're not saying, just look at it.
If it says 80%, we're good,
you gotta actually look at
what 80% is being covered.
>> Yeah, it's like,
are you covering the right 80%, right?
>> The 20% that's not covered
could be the most important.
>> Yeah,
could be the 80% of what your code does.
You know what I mean?
It's like we joked before about
that agony for performance, right?
If the most hit code path in real
world production usage is not covered,
that's probably more important
than if you had 80% of files
that don't really get used all that often,
right?
And also, any number that you read on the
Internet should be treated with suspicion.
Because they're written by a bunch
of backend engineers who have
microservices where everything
is really condensed down and
we have to deal with wild bunch
of state and Safari hacks.
Used to be IE hacks, right?
And things are tougher over here-
>> Viewports and?
>> What's that?
>> And viewports and devices.
>> And viewports and weird, Firefox
does this a little bit differently,
and Mac OS wants to put a gloat,
that kinda stuff.
So, and like I said,
this is only doing what vitest does.
So you could have an amazing set of, is
that a question we got from after lunch,
you could have an amazing
set of browser-based tests.
And maybe someone's be like, yo, there's
a tool that merges these things, I don't
know about it, because it's usually
working as the built assets at that point.
We don't have access to this anymore.
But you could have something that is
covering it effectively, as well.
I worked at a company a few years ago,
they hired three full time
people whose job it was to
clone down the repo and
spin it up and do things, right?
[LAUGH] And so 10 to 100% code coverage,
whose job it is?
But yeah, and so it's useful tool.
But the coverage for
it I think is super interesting.
And if you wanna do
the programmatic stuff with it,
there are different
reporters that you can use.
Yeah, reporter, and
I think I can do it as an array.
Yeah, you see that autocomplete
happening in there?
The modern era is really great,
[LAUGH] as I said before.
This is when people who wrote
compiled language would be like,
the compiler tells me everything and
finds all the problems.
I'm like, must seem nice, and I feel
like I'm starting to live in that world.
These are some of the ones built in.
Do I know what they all are?
No.
TeamCity seems like a thing
that I should know what it is.
I don't.
JSON, if you were gonna build your own or
wanna track it over time, right, cuz,
yeah, do I believe that you should write
your own code coverage monitoring tool?
I do not.
Have I worked at companies which won't let
you install third party anything ever and
understand that you might have
to give them where you work?
I do understand that.
So JSON might be what you choose to do.
That I read, as I was talking,
as Cobra Tuna.
That is not what that says.
But yeah, and so
there are different things you can do.
You can generate this, so on and so forth.
It would be interesting if
you wanna know what happens,
how it annotates the code,
that's the data structure.
You are welcome to format that with
Prettier and look at it in your free time.
I will not be doing that.
And this is also partially a reason why
maybe you don't wanna check this in
the version control because,
you know what we don't need in our lives?
Everyone checking,
having merge conflicts with that.
So, yeah, but
you might have your build process do it.